<div xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <div style="text-align: left;">[[TableOfContents|Table of Contents]] | [[Using_a_Secured_Thrift_API|Previous]] | [[Configuration_Parameters_in_doradus.yaml|Next]] | [[Index|Index]]</div>
  <div style="color: #999999; font-family: sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">
    <span>[[Doradus_Configuration_and_Operation|Doradus Configuration and Operation]]</span> : <span>[[Doradus_Configuration_Files|Doradus Configuration Files]]</span> : Configuring Doradus for Clusters</div>
  <hr />
  <div style="color: #4F81BD; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: bold; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-top: 10pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0YJ0HA">Configuring Doradus for Clusters</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0XJ0HA">Multiple instances of Cassandra and/or Doradus can be used in the same cluster. As described in the section </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">Deployment Guidelines</span>, a recommended practice is to deploy an instance of both Doradus and Cassandra on each node. Then, each Doradus instance should be configured to contact all Cassandra nodes. This provides load balancing and fault tolerance in case a Cassandra node fails.</div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0WJ0HA">The Cassandra instance(s) to which each Doradus instance connects is defined in the </span><span style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">dbhost</span> parameter in its <span style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">doradus.yaml</span> file. This parameter should be set to a comma-separated list of host names or (preferably) IP addresses of Cassandra instance hosts. For example:</div>
  <div style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 18pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0VJ0HA">dbhost: 10.1.82.146, 10.1.82.147, 10.1.82.148</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0UJ0HA">This example tells the corresponding Doradus instance to use three Cassandra instances. Doradus will distribute connections across these nodes for load balancing.</span></div>
</div>