<div xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <div style="text-align: left;">[[TableOfContents|Table of Contents]] | [[Doradus_Configuration_Files|Previous]] | [[Doradus_Security_Options|Next]] | [[Index|Index]]</div>
  <div style="color: #999999; font-family: sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">
    <span>[[Doradus_Configuration_and_Operation|Doradus Configuration and Operation]]</span> : <span>[[Doradus_Configuration_Files|Doradus Configuration Files]]</span> : Setting Doradus Logging Options</div>
  <hr />
  <div style="color: #4F81BD; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: bold; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-top: 10pt;"><span id="wwpID0E01L0HA">Setting Doradus Logging Options</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0ZL0HA">Doradus logs messages about its operation using the log4j logging facility. Logging options are define in the file </span><span style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">log4j-server.properties</span>. One option you might consider changing is:</div>
  <div style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 18pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0YL0HA">log4j.rootLogger=INFO, console, file</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0XL0HA">This sets the global logging level to INFO, and it sends log messages to both the console (stdout) and a "file" appender. If Doradus is run as a service, the duplicate output to "console" is unnecessary, so this parameter should be removed. Also, in diagnostic situations, you might want to change the INFO keyword to DEBUG to generate additional logging messages. Note that DEBUG log level causes log files to grow more quickly.</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0WL0HA">The </span><span style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">log4j-server.properties</span> file also defines the following option:</div>
  <div style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 18pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0VL0HA">log4j.appender.file.File=doradus.log</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0UL0HA">This option sends the "file" log appender to a log file called </span><span style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">doradus.log</span> in the Doradus server’s runtime directory. If you wish log files to be stored with another name and/or in another location, modify this option with a new relative or absolute file name.</div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0TL0HA">Two other options to consider:</span></div>
  <div style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 18pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0SL0HA">log4j.appender.file.maxBackupIndex=50</span></div>
  <div style="color: #4A442A; font-family: Consolas; font-size: 9.5pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 18pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0RL0HA">log4j.appender.file.maxFileSize=20MB</span></div>
  <div style="font-family: &quot;Museo Sans For Dell Regular&quot;; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-top: 12pt;"><span id="wwpID0E0QL0HA">These options cause the log file to grow up to 20MB, at which point it is renamed with a numeric extension (.1, .2, etc.) and a new file is started. Up to 50 files are retained (up to 1GB total log data), at which point the oldest file is removed. Modify these options to increase or decrease the number and size of log files stored.</span></div>
</div>